# UGP--Using-EEG-and-Decision-Making-to-Understand-Stress
Stress is a state of physical, mental, and emotional tension. It is a defense mechanism of the body against dangerous situations, built into us by the transfer of genetic material from our hunter-gatherer ancestors. Common stressors for our ancestors included things like the sudden appearance of a predator in front of them. In such situations, the body puts on top priority- escape from the current dangerous situation, and other trivial functions are temporally put on low priority. This reaction is beneficial for the species in the long run, and thus evolution has selected it.

However, in the past few centuries, our lifestyle has changed so drastically that evolution wasn’t able to cope with it, and we have ended up in a very bad spot healthwise on our species’ timeline. The modern-day stressors are very different from ancient ones and thus need a different response mechanism. However, we still have a response mechanism meant for the ancient stressors, and this causes a lot of problems. Our current lifestyle has left us in a state of constant tension and anxiety. Stress was never meant to be chronic, but now it is, in most of our lives. Chronic stress is a major contributor to many mental problems and lifestyle diseases including heart diseases. Given that the most common cause of death today worldwide is heart-related diseases, we can not ignore stress any longer in our lives.

This project is an attempt to understand stress better, through the brain imaging technique, Electroencephalography, and Decision Making Tasks, which give a deeper insight into the brain's functioning.
